add eng redis file (#1638)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/data-integration/data-bridge-redis.md

# Redis

> EMQX supports integration with Redis so you can save client messages and events to Redis. By leveraging Redis' high performance and flexible data structure, EMQX provides features like message caching and statistics of published/subscribed/discarded messages. 

Reviewer: 不是 EMQX 本身提供的功能，是 借助 Redis Bridge 来实现这些业务。

> EMQX supports integration with Redis so you can save client messages and events to Redis. By leveraging Redis' high performance and flexible data structure, EMQX provides features like message caching and statistics of published/subscribed/discarded messages. 

Reviewer: 不是 EMQX 本身提供的功能，是 借助 Redis Bridge 来实现这些业务。

> EMQX supports integration with Redis so you can save client messages and events to Redis. By leveraging Redis' high performance and flexible data structure, EMQX provides features like message caching and statistics of published/subscribed/discarded messages. 

Author: ```suggestion
EMQX supports integration with Redis so you can save client messages and events to Redis. With Redis data bridge, you can use Redis for message caching and statistics of published/subscribed/discarded messages. 
```

#### Create rules

1. Click **Create** on the top right corner of the page.
2. Input `cache_to_redis` as the rule ID, and set the rules in the **SQL Editor**. Here we want to save the MQTT messages under topic `t/#`  to PostgreSQL, we can use the SQL syntax below. Note: If you are testing with your SQL, please ensure you have included all required fields in the `SELECT` part. 

```sql
SELECT
  *
FROM
  "t/#"
```

4. Then click the **Add Action** button, select **Forwarding with Data Bridge** from the dropdown list and then select the data bridge we just created under **Data bridge**. Then, click the **Add** button. 
4. Then click the **Create** button to finish the setup. 

Now we have successfully finished the configuration for message caching.

### Message discard statistics

This section will illustrate how to use Redis for message discard statistics. 

Note: Except for the Redis Command template and rules, the other settings are the same as the [Message caching](#消息暂存) section. 

**Redis Command template**

> Use [HINCRBY](https://redis.io/commands/hincrby/) command below to collect the discarded messages under this topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [HINCRBY](https://redis.io/commands/hincrby/) command below to collect the discarded messages under every topic.
```

```bash
# HINCRBY key field increment
HINCRBY emqx_message_dropped_count ${topic} 1
```

> One will be added to the corresponding counter every time the command is executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each time the command is executed, the corresponding counter is incremented by 1.
```

**Rule SQL**

EMQX rules define 2 message discarding events, through which the rules can be triggered and recorded in Redis:

| Event                                    | Topic                    | Parameter                                                    |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Messages are discarded during forwarding | $events/message_dropped  | [$events/message_dropped](./rule-sql-events-and-fields.md#消息在转发的过程中被丢弃事件-events-message-dropped) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Messages are discarded during forwarding | $events/message_dropped | [$events/message_dropped](./rule-sql-events-and-fields.md#events-message-dropped) |
```

> | Messages are discarded during delivery   | $events/delivery_dropped | [$events/delivery_dropped](./rule-sql-events-and-fields.md#消息在投递的过程中被丢弃事件-events-delivery-dropped) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Messages are discarded during delivery   | $events/delivery_dropped | [$events/delivery_dropped](./rule-sql-events-and-fields.md#events-delivery-dropped) |
```
